# Content-oriented-Database
An image database for Image quality assessment 

DETAILS OF THE DATABASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
80 reference images were used to create a database classified on the image content. The distorted images are generated by five distortion 
types: Gaussian blur, HEVC, White noise, JPEG2000, and JPEG.

We find 30 observers from CityU and Xi'dian University during the subjective testing. The software interface of subjective testing is 
shown in the paper, which loads images in a random order and is used to evaluate the quality of images with the grade ranging from 1 to 10
by the observers. Befroe the testing, an introduction and several example images with scores are provided to the observers. There are still 
some request for the PC device:
1) the display resolution is higher than 1680 X 1050;
2) the viewing distance is around 2-2.5 screen heights.
Each folder includes images with one type of content, the number of which is 400. Each content type was evaluated by different subjects
using the requested equipment and similar viewing conditions. In this way, all 1600 distorted images were evaluated by 30 observers. 
After that, the subjective results were depressed to delete the unreliable results, and the subjective scores were coverted to Z-scores, 
then scaled and shifted to the full range (1 to 100). Finally, a Mean Opinion Score (MOS) value for each distorted image was calculated.

Detailes OF FOLDERS IN CONTENT-ORIENTED DATABASE
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
In folder face, there are 400 distorted iamges referenced by 20 face scene images with three MATLAB mat files: index.mat, mosface.mat and 
refimage.mat. The file index.mat is used to index images in the face folder. The file mosface.mat is the MOS values for 400 distorted images 
in the folder, and the file refimage.mat is the number of reference images for the 400 distorted images in the folder.

In folder handcraft, there are 400 distorted iamges referenced by 20 handcraft scene images with three MATLAB mat files: index.mat, 
moshandcraft.mat and refimage.mat. The file index.mat is used to index images in the handcraft folder. The file moshandcraft.mat is the 
MOS values for 400 distorted images in the folder, and the file refimage.mat is the number of reference images for the 400 distorted 
images in the folder.

In folder landscape, there are 400 distorted iamges referenced by 20 landscape scene images with three MATLAB mat files: index.mat, 
moslandscape.mat and refimage.mat. The file index.mat is used to index images in the landscape folder. The file moslandscape.mat is the 
MOS values for 400 distorted images in the folder, and the file refimage.mat is the number of reference images for the 400 distorted 
images in the folder.

In folder hybrid, there are 400 distorted iamges referenced by 20 hybrid scene images with three MATLAB mat files: index.mat, moshybrid.mat
and refimage.mat. The file index.mat is used to index images in the hybrid folder. The file moshybrid.mat is the MOS values for 400 
distorted images in the folder, and the file refimage.mat is the number of reference images for the 400 distorted images in the folder.

In folder classifier, the folder training_data is the training dataset that includes 1600 images from the Internet for the image 
classification. The MATLAB mat files SVMModel.mat, traininglabel.mat and testinglabel.mat are the classifier model, the ground truth 
of training set and testing set, respectively.
